# findspingroup

`findspingroup` is a Python toolkit for identifying and analyzing **Spin Space Group (SSG)** symmetry of magnetic crystal structures.  
Given a magnetic CIF file, it determines the corresponding spin space group, constructs a standardized primitive magnetic cell, and provides symmetry- and property-related results for downstream first-principles workflows.

The project is designed for **research use**, **high-throughput screening**, and **integration with DFT pipelines**.

## Installation

### Using pip

```bash
git clone https://github.com/LiuQH-lab/FindSpinGroup.git
cd findspingroup
pip install -e .
```

Python version: >= 3.11

## Quick start
```python
from findspingroup import find_spin_groups

result = find_spin_groups("/examples/0.800_MnTe.mcif")
print(result)
```
## Main API
```python
def find_spin_groups(
    cif: str,
    space_tol: float = 0.02,
    mtol: float = 0.02,
    meigtol: float = 0.00002,
) -> MagSymmetryResult
```
The function returns a `MagSymmetryResult` object, which encapsulates all outputs of the symmetry analysis.
### Input object: `.mcif`
**findspingroup** supports standard `.cif` and Magnetic `.mcif` files.

* **Standard CIF**: Uses structural positions.
* **MCIF (Magnetic CIF)**: Supports files generated by **FINDSYM**, **ISOTROPY**, or **Vesta**.
    * The parser looks for `_atom_site_moment` tags.
    * It automatically handles magnetic vectors ($m_x, m_y, m_z$).
### Output object: `MagSymmetryResult`
All results are exposed as attributes of the returned MagSymmetryResult instance.
Users are expected to directly access the attributes they need.

The object includes (but is not limited to):

- Primitive magnetic cell

- Spin space group identification results

- Symmetry operations and related information

- Symmetry-constrained physical properties (with and without SOC)

Please inspect the `MagSymmetryResult` class definition for the complete and authoritative list of available attributes.



## License
This project is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0.
See the LICENSE file for details.
